hi I'm dr. Paul here in the Nu
Skin laboratories I'm so excited to tell
you about epic essential oils you know
our lives are so hectic anymore
we're surrounded by digital devices
sometimes I fear that we're losing
connection to the earth and to each
other and that's why I'm so excited
about his epic essential oils provide an
opportunity for us to reconnect to this
planet and to each other because in
ethno botanist I've spent my career
studying how indigenous people use
plants what interests me is everywhere I
go
indigenous people have discovered
aromatic plants whose fragrance can
change their mood can help increase
their alertness to use to make their
lives more meaningful and rich you know
the word essential in essential oils
comes from the French term for the
volatile the aromatic fraction of any
plant as good as opposed to the concrete
which is the non-volatile part it
doesn't mean that they're essential for
life or essential for human existence
but they just make our life better just
like eating your first mango or being
kissed through the first time or seeing
a small child smile you we're looking at
a beautiful sunset we don't require
these for life but they allow us to live
a much richer and more connected
lifestyle few people realize that
essential oils have a very strong ethno
botanical history although steam
distillation has been available in
Europe for only two centuries indigenous
people for thousands of years have been
extracting the aromatic fragrances from
the plants that surround them move is
one of the essential oils in the new
epic line that combines wintergreen and
juniper
you know I've wandered among the juniper
forests here in the Colorado Plateau
Juniper's have been used by Native
Americans since Anasazi times juniper is
combined with wintergreen provide a very
soothing and cooling sensation all over
the world indigenous people eat lemons
the fact the very first human clinical
trials were based by British sailors
using lemon to treat scurvy and the
lemon fragrance provides this very
invigorating
clean environment in fact some have
called it liquid sunshine this is one of
my favorite ones which is peppermint -
people know that peppermint has been
used for hundreds of years by Native
Americans and it provides a really sort
of exhilarating sensation makes
alertness makes me pretty excited
just like it did Native Americans Billy
my career I worked in Australia where
there's over 700 species of the genus
eucalyptus did you know that eucalyptus
oil has been used by Australian
Aboriginals and later by European
immigrants to help them breathe easy and
to give sort of a sense of lightness of
being burst includes a blend of six
citrus oils including that a grapefruit
which was brought to this Florida coast
by the Spaniards in the 1600s and
rapidly adopted by the Seminole Indians
this blend with just two hits pyramid
really provides increased energy and
alertness lavender is such an important
essential oil and for centuries lavender
has been used in Europe to help clean
and provide an antiseptic surrounding in
fact lavender comes from the Latin word
Lavar e which means to wash his short
blend combines essences of plants used
throughout Southeast Asia in fact in the
ancient times to approach the Emperor of
Japan crews were required to have
clothes in a myth and cinnamon oil has
been used throughout Southeast Asia to
provide a feeling of cleanliness in the
home you know if you want to feel
relaxed go hang out like I do on a bench
in southern Italy these folks have
discovered that bergamot combined with
lavender produces for them a feeling of
relaxation of being able to unwind after
a hectic day here in the new skin
laboratories we've combined cutting-edge
science with thousands of years of
indigenous knowledge to come up with the
epic essential oils I'm so excited about
them I know that you will be too
you